OSDOCS-17051-4: CQA POST-3: Multi-Architecture Compute Node Creation (#115168)
openshift/openshift-docs: post_installation_configuration/configuring-multi-arch-compute-machines/creating-multi-arch-compute-nodes-ibm-z.adoc

toc::[]

[role="_abstract"]
To create a cluster with multi-architecture compute machines on {ibm-z-name} and {ibm-linuxone-name} (`s390x`) with z/VM, you must have an existing single-architecture `x86_64` cluster. You can then add `s390x` compute machines to your {product-title} cluster.

Before you can add `s390x` nodes to your cluster, you must upgrade your cluster to one that uses the multi-architecture payload. For more information on migrating to the multi-architecture payload, see "Migrating to a cluster with multi-architecture compute machines".

The following procedures explain how to create a {op-system} compute machine using a z/VM instance. This will allow you to add `s390x` nodes to your cluster and deploy a cluster with multi-architecture compute machines.

To create an {ibm-z-name} or {ibm-linuxone-name} (`s390x`) cluster with multi-architecture compute machines on `x86_64`, follow the instructions for "Installing a cluster on {ibm-z-name} and {ibm-linuxone-name}". You can then add `x86_64` compute machines as described in "Creating a cluster with multi-architecture compute machines on bare metal, {ibm-power-title}, or {ibm-z-title}".

[NOTE]
====

> Before adding a secondary architecture node to your cluster, Red Hat recommends to install the Multiarch Tuning Operator, and deploy a `ClusterPodPlacementConfig` object. For more information, see "Managing workloads on multi-architecture clusters by using the Multiarch Tuning Operator".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before adding a secondary architecture node to your cluster, installing the Multiarch Tuning Operator and deploying a `ClusterPodPlacementConfig` object are best practices. For more information, see "Managing workloads on multi-architecture clusters by using the Multiarch Tuning Operator".
```
saying RH recommends is a no-go, maybe the suggestion instead? see https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#recommend

Author: :heavy_check_mark:
